if you've ever attempted to escape the
oldest anarchy server in Minecraft
chances are that at some point you've
come across the massive gap known as to
be two t's great spawn trench a massive
public works project in the shape of a
square surrounding the immediate spawn
region its total length is 16,000 blocks
with over 24 million blocks removed from
the ground just to allow it to go all
the way down to bedrock the construction
of the trench was an amazing feat of
engineering and player collaboration
even with multiple sabotage attempts on
the project so exactly what is it why is
it here and what was it used for well
today we'll be taking a look at the
history of the trench the people behind
it and the reasons it was built we'll
also see what the trench looks like in
present day on the server itself much
like the trench today's video gets deep
so we have much to discuss
and as a reminder if you haven't already
hit that subscribe button yet make sure
to do it so you can stay updated on when
I release new minecraft content now then
our story begins a few years ago in
order to understand why the trench was
such a big deal for the server you need
to know the backstory of the man behind
it someone who I've spoken about on the
channel before to b2t player thieves and
sound had a well established reputation
as the server's greatest civil engineer
he was the mastermind behind some of to
be tooties most impressive and ambitious
public works projects years ago he began
construction of the southern canal a
waterway starting at spawn and heading
south for hundreds of thousands of
blocks making it one of the longest
canals ever built in survival minecraft
he inspired others to help with the
canal construction by forming the
southern canal core since multiple
people were now working on the canal
together its length increased
exponentially after the canal had
reached such a massive length he focused
on his next major project in 2018 to be
tooties great spawn wall
a massive wall made of 1.6 million
obsidian surrounding the immediate spawn
region while it's basic goal was to
prevent new players from leaving spawn
it was mainly a symbolic structure meant
to represent what was possible when
players came together in an otherwise
hostile environment thanks to the help
of the 6th incursion that was going on
at the time the project was a massive
success now this is where our story
begins today it's the middle of 2018
phoebs had an idea for a new public
works project a great trench it would
completely surround spawn even past the
massive obsidian wall the trench would
go all the way down to bedrock and be
used as a way to stop new players from
escaping the reasoning behind it would
be that the trench would work in several
different ways at the same time it would
be wide enough where new players would
need to gather materials with their bare
fists just to be able to get a cross but
doing so would be time-consuming enough
that patrolling players could find and
kill them before they have the chance to
cross this would also encourage new
players to try escaping through the
nether instead effectively funneling
them into a single spot for player
killers to take advantage of on top of
that with the trench going all the way
down to bedrock
it would allow lava walls to go all the
way to y level 0 in the past
lava walls had been used to stop players
but they could be avoided simply by
digging a few blocks under them using
the trench for lava walls would make it
almost impossible for an unarmed player
to get out of spawn unassisted it was a
very ambitious idea but there weren't
any incursions going on and getting
enough players to join the project would
have been tough well luckily for thieves
in the fall of 2018 another youtube
invasion caused the 7th incursion to
start he quickly got involved and
managed to find enough players that
wanted to help out with the trench
project it was not going to be an easy
task
traditional digging where the pickaxe
was not going to work
because 24 million blocks would have to
be dug out to do that by hand would take
far too long
instead Thebes had a better idea
TNT Bombers Thebes himself had used them
previously in building the later
sections of the southern canal and had
even come up with his own specialized
designs for use on to b2t now it was
time to put them to work on a large
scale first all water source blocks on
the surface needed to be cleared in
order for the TNT explosions to be able
to destroy blocks once all the water was
removed
TNT bombers were constructed and used to
destroy all blocks down to bedrock
multiple members of the trench project
would construct bombers and let them run
for as long as necessary large lava
casts often stood in the way
so the Bombers had to be built up high
in order to cut through them obsidian
was used as a guide to ensure only
blocks within the two lines were
destroyed so any rogue TNT wouldn't
cause too much damage while progress was
coming along smoothly there were still
sabotage attempts on the trench where
players would attempt to blow up the
Bombers or to kill the trench crew
despite multiple attempts they were not
successful and the trench construction
continued everything was going according
to plan but eventually the 7th incursion
started to collapse from the inside do
the leadership failures Thebes saw the
train wreck coming and quietly inform
the trench crew that they would be
separating their project from the
incursion everybody involved understood
and continued their bombing efforts
their loyalty to Thebes and the trench
project was strong and after a few more
weeks of hard work the trench formed a
full square around the spawn region
going all the way down to bedrock the
trench was finally complete but since
the incursion was over and the objective
of killing new players was gone
the lava wall portion of the project was
not necessary the trench crew were proud
of what they had accomplished and went
their separate ways
Thebes would continue on several
different projects and even
started experimenting with new ways to
lava cast more efficiently using
redstone contraptions but now it's time
for us to log into to v2t ourselves and
see what has become of the trench let's
do this
Here I am on to b2t on my favorite alt
account kpop Bob back by popular demand
but let's go check out the trench and
see how its held up the past two years
alley there we go alright the trench is
only a few hundred blocks away so we're
gonna just take a nice casual flight
over there
we've reached the trench corner and I've
noticed that there's a lot of player
made bridges already on the trench I
mean it's bound to happen almost two
years have passed since the trench was
built so obviously players are gonna
find a way around it somehow or I guess
over it in this case well let's actually
fly through the trench to look to see
what else has changed well would you
look at that a skeleton horse just
chillin in the trench here good luck
getting it out of the trench though geez
but yeah thunder and lightning has been
re-enabled on the server recently so
that explains why we're seeing more and
more Scouts and horses as of late it's a
bit weird this part of the trench is a
bit darker because of all the obsidian
in the sky but man imagine if you were a
brand new player without hacks and you
were trying to escape and you got stuck
in this trench it would not be fun
especially with all the lava all the
withers yikes now even though the lava
wall was never fully completed inside
the trench there is still a small
portion of it that does have the lava
coming down from the sky and this is it
right here so this is kind of a proof of
concept of if they wanted to
during that encourage and they could
have filled in the entire thing with
lava to make it even more challenging
for players to escape let me just fly up
here real quick so I can show you the
obsidian structure that the lava source
blocks were housed in now they tried to
make it as inconvenient as possible for
anyone trying to get rid of the lava
source blocks the best part about this
tour is that I get to see things like
this and spawn I don't normally get to
see
at this mass of obsidian whoa that
weather skull was a little too close but
look at this massive obsidian fortress
here at spawn see I I need to come to
spawn more often so I can see cool stuff
like this check this out the remnants of
a bomber still here above the trench and
the blocks have been here so long they
have snow on top of them man only on 2 B
2 T are you gonna find stuff like this
it's wild
I found something take a look down there
furnaces I see what's going on here I
see what's going on but overall this is
the trench on modern day 2 B 2 T it has
stood the test of time it is just
another one of the amazing sights to see
on the oldest Anarchy server in
Minecraft but anyway if you enjoyed
today's video make sure to leave a like
and hit that subscribe button also make
sure to follow me on Twitter and
Instagram to stay updated on when new
minecraft content is coming out but
that's it for today everyone take it
easy
and if you plan to play on to b2t make
sure you stay alive out there fit fam
alright